#summary Project History
#labels Featured

== Version 0.9.6 ==
  * Corrected the inner assignement rule (wasn't detecting the end of a control statement if no brackets).
  * Corrected the file exclusion list.
  * Corrected a bug with nextToken at the end of a file.
  * Added the possibility to add exceptions to the checkVariableNaming rule

== Version 0.9.5 ==
  * Corrected a bug with @SuppressWarnings on a class.

== Version 0.9.4 ==
  * Added  __invoke and __callStatic to the special functions.

== Version 0.9.3 ==
  * Refactoring of the indentation check (thanks to Charles Marion). The "noTabs" rule is replaced by the "indentation" rule.
  * Reactivation of the "noSpaceAfterControlStmt" rule.
  * Correction of a bug with multiple output files. 
  * Added a rule for the naming of protected functions. 

== Version 0.9.2 ==
  * Multiple output files (separated by a comma in the --format command line parameter)
  
== Version 0.9.1 ==
  * Possibility to scan multiple source directories (separated by a comma in the --src command line parameter)
                        
== Version 0.9 == 
  * Dependency on lib_xsl removed
  * Documentation updated to link to the new project home (http://code.google.com/p/phpcheckstyle/)
  * HTML Report validated with W3C validator, HTML characters escaped
  * Possibility to suppress some warnings using annotations before a class or a function in the code (@SuppressWarnings)
  * New logo

== Version 0.8.11 ==
  * Refactoring : Added the current stack of instruction to provide contextual information
  * New test : unusedCode
  * New test : deprecated functions


== Version 0.8.10 ==
  * Corrected JavaNCSS count of packages
  * New test : functionInsideLoop

== Version 0.8.9== 
  * Corrected LevelOfNesting calculation
  * New test : oneClassPerFile

== Version 0.8.8 ==
  * New test : variableNaming
  * Added the possibility to configure the regular expressions for the naming rules
  * A taste of it's own dog food
                        
== Version 0.8.7 ==
  * New test : checkUnusedVariables
  * New test : checkUnusedFunctionParameters
      
== Version 0.8.6 ==
  * Correction in the controlStructOpenCurly check.
      
== Version 0.8.5 ==
  * New test : empty statement {{{ ;; }}}
  * New test : inner assignment
  * New test : unused private functions
      
== Version 0.8.4 ==
  * Refactored the whiteSpaceBore / noSpaceBefore / whiteSpaceAfter / noSpaceAfter methods.
  * Refactored peekNextValidToken and peekPrvsValidToken to avoid using call by reference 
  * New test : function length
  * New test : empty block {{{ if ($a) {}  }}}
  * New test : avoid heredoc
  * New test : excessive function parameters
  * New test : need braces
  * New tests : switch have a default and default is at the end
  * New test : switch case should have a break
       
== Version 0.8.3 ==
  * Added some tests on the docbloc (@param and @return)
  * Added a test on unary operators
  * Corrected a bug in the detection of the end of a function
 
== Version 0.8.2 ==
  * Added new test (Use boolean operators instead of logical operators)
                        
== Version 0.8.1 ==
  * Corrected a bug with NEW_LINE caracter inside a constant string

                        
== Version 0.8 ==
  * Replaced the token_get_all() function by token_get_all_nl() found here : http://php.net/manual/fr/function.token-get-all.php
This function returns the new line caracters as a token. This solve some problems and impact a lot of code.  
  * Added the possibility to generate a report on the number of lines of code compatible with the JavaNCSS format (http://kclee.de/clemens/java/javancss/) 
  * Added new tests (Extract TODOs, Avoid passing references) 
  * Some refactoring
           
           
== Version 0.7.1 ==
  * Added new tests (Cyclomatic Complexity, ...)


== Version 0.7 ==
  * All tests are now configurable 
  * Included siome propositions from the forum 
  * Added the possibility to define a severity level for each test rule 
  * Ignoring the .svn repositories 
  * Changed the XML outpout in order to be compatible with the checkstyle format (http://checkstyle.sourceforge.net/)

== Version 0.6.1 ==
  * Bugs Fixes 
  * HTML Ouput changes

== Version 0.6 ==

 This is the very first release of PHPCheckstyle (hosted on Spike source). It is an alpha release.